# Final-Project

 https://suha-web.github.io/Final-Project/

The theme for my final project explore the evolving releationshp between nature and technology, a consistent topic that inspires my work. It is an interactive art piece containing four images arranged in the canvas: a heart, a brain, an eyeball, and blood. Each image responds to user interaction, having collision, when the mouse is clicked on the image a unique sound for each image is played. The audio was made from recording from technology. I recorded the sounds from a train, a washing machine, a ps4, a light switch, air conditioner, an artifical fireplace, a keyboard, a laptop and an extension.

The connection between the human body and technology is explored. It poses the question if our body and senses are constantly shaped and influenced by modern day technology around us or is it the other way around. Our lives determining the development and make of this tech. How much has technology merged with our lives and bodies, linked togther, depened on each other. I prefer exploring the art side of coding showed in this project.

To make the sounds for the heart I used a washing machine and the sound of a train. I then combined the sounds together. When editing the sounds I changed the pitch and pace of the washing machine to creating the heart pulses and lowered the train volume to create a low background noise. To make the sounds for the brain I used the spunds from a ps4 and a light switch. I separated the sound of the ps4 starting and running, creating a loud high pitch start and a low hum. I used the light switch as activity of the brain, lowering the volume for a quiet background that plays countiously. To create the sounds for the eyeball, I used the sounds of air conditioner, a laptop keeboard and an artificial fireplace. The merge between the aircondioner and the fireplace creates a buzz for the ambient sound. The quite clicks of the keyboard creates the sound for blinking. For the last sound of the blood in the blood stream, I used the sounds of a laptop and an extension plug. Both create the sound of liquid.

To start the code, I created an array for the the position of the squares. The created the variables for the information of the images and sounds. The preload function loads in the images and sounds. The draw function creates the red, blue, yellow and pink squares. then I added the drawings to them using the same positions. Originally, the x, y, w and h were defined in the draw function but to create the mouse clicked function I had to create an array for the coordinates. The draw function creates the quarters and finds out were the mouse is clicked then starts the sound for each quarter. I had lanned to create the sounds to be random but then the sounds had bad quality. So the orginal sounds for each image ended up as the prefered option. I was stuck making the making the sounds for each drawing match the drawing when the mouse was clicked. Overall, this project mulipulates audio and images to create a meaningful message.

For inspiration, I used the code from the URL of collisions to start my code as i used collisions to start the sound, creating user interaction. I used the media GIT codingfor art as inspiration as well. This was esspicaly usefull as I wantedto focus on sound controll and manipulation. Lastly, I used the p5.Js referance and 'Getting Started with p5js' book when I was stuck. https://github.com/anthillsocial/GIT-coding-for-the-arts/tree/main/06-media/sound-pan-speed.
